<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=UTF-8"/>
<meta http-equiv="content-style-type" content="text/css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="screen" href="document.css"/>
<title>Oyster Documentation</title>
<!--[if lt IE 8]>
					<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="screen" href="./layout/ie.css" />
					<script src="http://ie7-js.googlecode.com/svn/version/2.0(beta3)/IE8.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
				<![endif]-->
</head>
<body class="documentation">
<div id="header">
<div class="wrapper">
<a id="title" href="http://oyster.bitpiston.com/">Oyster</a>
<span id="subtitle">A Perl web application framework.</span>
</div>
</div>
<hr/>
<div id="navigation">
<div class="wrapper">
<ul>
<li>
<a href="http://oyster.bitpiston.com/">Overview</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="http://oyster.bitpiston.com/download/">Download</a>
</li>
<li class="selected">
<a href="../index.xhtml">Documentation</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="http://oyster.bitpiston.com/weblog/">Weblog</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="http://oyster.bitpiston.com/development/">Development</a>
</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
<hr/>
<div id="content">
<div class="wrapper">
<div id="content-primary"><h1>Coding Conventions</h1>
	<p>
		This document outlines the coding practices we follow when developing Oyster.  You do not have to follow these guidelines, these are merely the guidelines for official Oyster code.
	</p>
	<h2>General</h2><p>
		
			Perl Best Practices is mostly adhered to.
			{ should not occur on its own line.
			()'s should only be ommitted on builtins (or some library functions that can be considered 'builtins', like exception stuff, which mimics language constructs) which take a single argument.
			Entire-line comments (aka, not on the same line as code) should have one line of whitespace above them, unless the previous line was also a comment.
			1/0 should be used to indicate true/false, everywhere, including xml. undef (or an empty list where applicable) is also acceptable as false in perl code.
		
	</p>
	<h2>Package/Variable/Function Naming</h2><p>
		
			lowercase_and_underscores for everything
			nouns should be last, not first (aka, delete_file instead of file_delete); if you have a set of functions that you feel should share a common prefix, consider putting them in their own package (like is done with file::delete)
		
	</p>
	<h2>Indentation</h2><p>
		Use four spaces for perl, tabs for xml/css.  For embedded documentation, which is xml, use four spaces.  Literal tabs should never appear in perl source code files.

	</p>
	<h2>Indicating Success or Failure</h2><p>
		Use exceptions where it makes sense, true/false (as documented earlier) otherwise.
	</p>
	<h2>Abbreviations</h2><p>
		In general, don't use them unless they are common outside of the scope of the code you are writing (for example: url, orm, misc).
		<p class="note">'description' should always be 'description', not 'desc'.</p>
	</p>
	<h2>Object Orientation</h2><p>
		OO should only be used when necessary, when you would actually need multiple objects of a given type or when it provides a superior api -- no OO for OO's sake, it's slower.
		<p class="note">$obj (or a more context-sensitive variable, such as $parser for a parser class) should be used instead of $self or $this</p>
	</p>
	<h2>Inline Documentation</h2><p>
		
	</p>
</div>
<div id="content-secondary">
<form id="search" method="get" action="/search/">
<div>
<input type="text" id="search-input" name="search-input" accesskey="f" value="Search documentation" onfocus="if(this.value=='Search documentation') this.value='';" onblur="if(this.value=='') this.value='Search documentation';" size="25"/>
<input type="image" src="../images/icon.search.png" id="search-submit " alt="Search" title="Search"/>
</div>
</form>
<h2>Lorem Ipsum</h2>
<p>Mauris eleifend adipiscing nisl. Mauris tellus nunc, condimentum vel, sollicitudin sit amet, gravida et, ante.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<hr/>
<div id="footer">
<div class="wrapper">
<p class="copyright">Copyright © 2007–2008 BitPiston, <abbr title="Limited Liability Company">LLC</abbr>. All rights reserved. <br/> Oyster is released under the <a href="./license.xhtml">Artistic License 2</a>, or the <a href="./license.xhtml">GNU General Public License (GPL) 2</a>.</p>
<a id="bitpiston" href="http://www.bitpiston.com/">A BitPiston Product.</a>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
